Cybernetics

Definition

-Scientific study of the connection between how information is communicated in machines and the human body (namely, the nervous system).
-Connecting machines to the human body, to work in compatibility with each other.
-Practical effects for people outside of this field, come down to cybernetic implants.

Examples of usage

From which:

-Most widely used currently are bionic ears, that convert sound into electrical impulses that are perceived by the user as sound. 
(Basicly the same way as a real ear).

-Conducted extensive trials of artificial vision. A camera often worn on the users glasses, computer around the waist.
Two electrodes implanted in the skull, stimulating the surface of the brain's sight centers. 
It's not advanced enough to show color or small details, but it allows for seeing rough shapes, and the light intensity.
Makes it possible to grant someone the ability to see, even when they are compleatelly blind.

-Mind control prosthetsis. I'll keep this one short, they use signals from the brain to move around, and have become more and more precise over the years.

-Something scarier, mind controll. Obviously unethical, and illegal on humans at least. A concept that the US goverment fiddled with for a bit in the 1960's,
but didn't get any further than simply immobilizing a bull using a remote (impressive in it's own right).
Nowadays scientists implant computers onto rats brains, and are capable of making them move in the desired direction, without any way for the animal
to resist. They only give a general direction and the rat does the rest. In the future maybe humans.

And that brings us to:

Advantages and disadvantages

When talking about advantages the most obvious one is:

-Helping people with disabilities or serious injuries. Restoring eyesight, hearing, returning lost limbs, and even reconnecting the spinal cord.
All of those are already possible and used in our society. There isn't much cybernetic implants can't help with. 

But what makes them so useful is also why they're dangerous. 

As I mentioned before it's possible to control an organisms actions using a remote device. Well you can say that you wouldn't let someone 
install a device like that in your head, but that might be harder than you think. The way brain implants communicate with it will improve
over time, and soon it could, for example, boost our memory, reflexes, productivity and perceptiveness. It could make it possible to connect your brain
dirrectly to the internet, or show you videos and play music in your head. It wouldn't be just convenient. Very quickly it will be hard to function without one,
since everything will be tuned to people who have those devices. These implants could have features that would be advertised as something to protect you from
accidents or help you move around faster. But it would all come down to being able to take control of your body when convenient, which is a rather immense
disadvantage if you ask me.

Now, for the conclusion:

What to expect from the future
Well, you can't stop progress. Once it starts it won't let itself be stopped. The implants will become more and more advanced, and their impact
on our lives will keep increasing. And just as with everything else connected to new technology, it can't be called entirely positive or negative in all its aspects.

That's the end of my speach, are there any questions?
