Today I'll be talking about cryptocurrineces, and the digital money market as a whole.

Since ancient times humans have used some sort of currency. In the beggining, coins were made from
gold and silver, altho at first, only used for collecting taxes, they were soon incorporated into trade.
Seeing as the materials used in minting were precious and rare metals, they had obvious and
indisputable value. 
Because of that they were rather impractical, for example a single gold coin from the Roman Empire
would now be worth about 400 dollars, so I'm sure that going grocery shopping would prove quite difficult.
Adapting to those issues took a while, first solutions were to use less expensive metals like bronze to
represent smaller parts of the more expensive coins.
Soon other problems arose, such as the shortage of precious metals and a growing demand for a stable and
easily divisible currency. This time instead of giving money value based on the cost of the materials used,
governments began issuing fiat currency. Fiat currency is not backed by a physical commodity like gold or silver,
instead, its value is assured by the trust and confidence of the people who use it as well as the authority of the issuing government.
So basically, it doesn't have any value of its own, but we all agree that it has, purely for our own convenience.
This form allowed for creation of paper money and eventually also digital currency.

And that takes us to the main topic, which is cryptocurrencies. In essence, they operate similarly to fiat currencies, but they take it to the extreme. 
What sets them apart is their obtaining process which is quite different from traditional money printing. There are various types of cryptocurrencies, 
but let's focus on the most well-known one: Bitcoin. Bitcoin can be earned through a process called mining which involves using processing power, 
preferably from specialized hardware like graphics cards, to solve complex mathematical problems. These problems, known as cryptographic puzzles, 
are essentially riddles with no practical applications other than securing the cryptocurrency network. 
Soon after the cryptocurriences were created, they were organized into a market of sorts, very similar to a stock market. Values of the coins
fluctuate over time, just like stocks sold by companies, but in their case the changes are more abrupt and a lot stronger.
Which means that both the risks and the potential rewards are bigger than in traditional stock markets. It is very important to keep 
a keen eye on your virtual wallet, because cryptocurriences have a tendency to increase in value a few hundred procent overnight. 
But the same goes for them plummeting down into nothing. So, while there have been many instances of pople earning a lot of money on
trading crypto, many others lost, probably, a similar ammount.

Quite a different story are NFTs which stands for (Non-Fungible Tokens). In short, they're a type of digital asset that represents 
ownership of a unique item or piece of content. For example it can be an image. It's quite similar to owning a piece of art.
With the difference that it is not a phisical object, but a piece of, somewhat original, data. Of course it comes with a lot
of copyright issues, and the whole NFT market is quite unstable. 
All that said it is also true that people really buy those chunks of binary code, with the most expensive piece - "The Merge" sold at 91 million dollars.

To sum up, while the idea of digital curriences can and should be taken with a bit of scepticism, it is also true that the basic principles of this type
of money are the same as any other currently used form of currency. It relies solely on peple giving it value as an unwritten agreement, but as long
as there is a possibility of making some extra profit I don't think we have to worry about that.
That is all, thank you.