to draw a bow - naciągać cięciwę łuku
draw weight - siła naciągu

Hello, today I'll be talking about bows and archery in general. Most of you probably know how a bow works, 
but do you know what it is really capable of? What was the strongest bow in history, and how it was outclassed by the design of a crossbow.

Lets start by explaining what draw weight of a bow is. We calculate it by measureing how much weight needs to be put on a bow to stretch 
it to 71 cm - which is an avarage draw length of an adult. It may vary from one archer to another since it is determined by arm length.
Typically, adults are able to pull bows between 9 to 32 kg. It was possible for seasoned archers to pull a 70 or even 90 kg bows, 
byt these are rare, record-setting cases. So some archers are able to draw a bow with a force required to pick up an adult man.
Of course, the strength doesn't only come from the arm or back, it comes from the entire body even from your legs.
Normally medieval archers in movies or books are pictured as skinny, agile people. When in reality they were heavily built, extremly athletic
individuals, prepared to shoot bows for hours at a time with a force of as much as 90 kg. They trained their whole life to be able to use them.

Now onto the most powerfull bows in history. For a start, the english longbow (16th-cnt). Being as long as i am tall this longbow with its
effective range of up to 320 m, and strength of even up to 75 kg, rendered most of medieval steel plate armour compleatelly useless
as the arrows shot from it could go straight through the plates.
Its penetration and fireing speed of up to six arrows a minute, made it a significant asset to the English army.

Meanwhile in Japan... The Yumi bow, an asymetrical extremly long bow, used by samurais in the feudal period these weird-looking bows
with draw weights between 60 to 80 kg, were probably designed originally to be used on horeseback, that's where the shrunken lower bow arm comes from.
Both of these designs are impressive in their own right, but the real first place dates all the way back to the 3-rd century. 

The Mongolian recurve bow.
While being much smaller than the other ones, this bow could still acumulate a similar amount of power (around 75 kg). It would not only have the strength
to penetrate any armour it also holds the record for its pinpoint accuracy at over 450 m that is four football stadions! It was even used efficiently
from horseback. Even with its small size, thanks to its curved shape, the arrows used in this bow were as long as a meter, which heavily contibuted
to its reliability in shots over long distances.

In our times hunting is as close as it comes to showing the combat utility of a bow. Mostly, hunters use modern compound bows,
which thanks to their special construction allow you to acumulatem more power while using less strength. They can produce 32 kg from a 16 kg pull.
Allowing for faster shooting and less fatigue.

All these bows are increadible, but they pale in comparison to the crossbow. Crossbows were despized in the middle ages. They packed as much force
on impact as the strongest bows, while being increadibly easy to use, easy aiming and almost no recoli allowed crossbowmen to hit a human from 500 m
consistantly. Christian nobles tried to ban the weapon because of assasins using them. People could stand hundreds of meters from their target
and still be able to make the shot.
What really shows its power is the fact that Hungary was able to fend of The Second Mongol Invasion who were using the recurve bows
as discused earlier, and with them they were able to defeat Japan, Korea and they even got to Poland. And still
Hungary a less war oriented nation with the right weaponry consisting of many crossbows defeated their army. Thus depraving the bow of its first place
between the ranged weapons.

At least for now bows went from their place on medieval battlefields to being used as recreation or sport. 
And the weapons that helped build empires now are being shown in museums. But, althoe they aren't used right now
we can still apreciate their construction and genious ideas behind them. I feel like war becam much less personal now.
One soldier can't really make a big differance while then it was common for archers to take down many enemies and still come out of it unhurt.
Archery has undergone a lot of changes in its time and it still remains one of the most satisfying physical activities, 
its difficult and its rewarding, thats why its one of my favourite sports. Thats all, thank you.
