Quantum computers

Explain where the term comes from:
The second part: Computer - lat.(computare) - calculate
The first: Quantum - literally "how much" in latin.
In physics: "the smallest discrete quantity of some 
physical property that a system can possess". 
Of course here it is used with a clear connection to Quantum physics
What makes them "quantum" computers is the fact that they use
some of the main principles and laws, in that field:
- superposition - foton is a wave and a particle at the same time,
computer bit in two states at the same time (not just 0 or 1),
- entanglement - direct connention between two particles
or in this context two bits in a computer, which means
they move in tandem regardless of distance.
- interference - this one is more universal and we learned
about it in the context of wave, in computers it means that
an incorrect answer (cancelled out), correct (reinforced).
Basically it works on different rules than normal computing
and is capable of working on many sets of data at the same time.
To achieve such properties, you need to build a computer on a 
quantum system, small enough to obey the laws of quantum mechanics.
That means you're working on practically singular particles.
As such it is very difficult to produce and maintain.
Another thing is it's power consumption.
An average quantum computer uses about 25 kW of power.
And high power means a lot of heat, dissipation of which
is of course very difficult.
Despite of that, many companies like Meta and Google
own at least one operational quantrum computing system.
That means that they see at least some significance in
having one of them on hand.
That may be connected to the fact that thanks to their
impressive computing power they are expected to be able
to break any commonly used encryption, for example in banks
or messaging apps. If our privacy on the internet is to be
protected, the encryption algorythms will need to evolve
quickly or be built up from the ground on
compleatelly different principles.

The presence of quantum computers likely won't change 
the lives of normal people much. We are very far away from
them being affordable for everyone and used in our
everyday lives. While they will likely cause some problems
to the giant companies, I doubt the average user will feel
their impact in any significant way.

Thats all.
